Update the readme and hacking pages (#5788)
canonical-web-and-design/ubuntu.com: HACKING.md

# Working on the ubuntu.com project

> The ubuntu.com codebase is a [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) app, which also includes some [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/)-based tools and tasks for building static files like CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ubuntu.com codebase is a [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) app, which builds on our own [flask-base](https://pypi.org/project/canonicalwebteam.flask-base/), [templatefinder](https://pypi.org/project/canonicalwebteam.templatefinder/), [blog](https://pypi.org/project/canonicalwebteam.blog/) and [search](https://pypi.org/project/canonicalwebteam.search/) packages.

We use [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/) for building static files like CSS through [`package.json` scripts](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/package-json/#toc-scripts).
```

./run build  # Build the CSS
./run watch  # Watch and build the CSS whenever Sass changes
./run clean  # Remove created files and docker containers

> ./run stop   # Stop any running containers

Author: @nottrobin 	?

> ./run stop   # Stop any running containers

Reviewer: Just ones for this project

### Running the site with native python

Since the site is basically a Flask app, you can also run the site in the traditional way using [python 3](https://docs.python.org/3/) and [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html?highlight=venv#module-venv):

``` bash
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

> ./entrypoint 127.0.0.0:8001

Reviewer: This needs to be either `./entrypoint 127.0.0.1:8001` or `./entrypoint 0.0.0.0:8001`. I'd recommend the latter just 'cos that's what we use in `./run`.

```

> Now browse to the site at <http://127.0.0.1:8001>. If it looks a bit odd, it's probably because you haven't built sass - see below.

Reviewer 2: Is it not http://0.0.0.1:8001 ?

Author: well, I don't think it matters, but for consistencies sake, they should be the same.

Reviewer 2: @nottrobin thanks for the explanations. I didn't know that. Every day is a school day :+1:

Reviewer: Just to add a little more flavour - the practical use for `0.0.0.0` is for when you want to tell a server which requests to listen for. If you tell it to listen at `127.0.0.1` then it will only listen for incoming requests with `Host: 127.0.0.1` headers. If you tell it to listen at `0.0.0.0` then it will listen for incoming requests with any `Host` header.

This is why we run Talisker with `--bind 0.0.0.0:8001`, and why what gets output on the command-line is `http://0.0.0.0:8001`. And the fact that that pattern is so common in local development is why browsers tend to assume that people visiting `http://0.0.0.0` probably want the local machine.

You can run `deactivate` to shutdown the virtual environment when you are done.

### Building Sass

The CSS needs to be built from the `static/css/styles.scss` file. This in turn requires [vanilla-framework](https://github.com/canonical-web-and-design/vanilla-framework).

If you can't build using the `./run build` command, you can pull down dependencies this using `yarn`:

``` bash
yarn install
```

Then you can use the built in scripts to build or watch the Sass:

``` bash
yarn run build  # Build the Sass to CSS then exit
yarn run watch  # Dynamically watch for Sass changes and build CSS
```

### Overriding Yarn modules

> You can use the `./run` script to use Yarn NPM modules from a local folder on a one-time basis, instead of the modules declared in `package.json`, as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `./run` script to use Yarn modules from a local folder on a one-time basis, instead of the modules declared in `package.json`, as follows:
```

``` bash

> ./run [-r|--root] [-p|--expose-port PORT] <script-name>

Reviewer: Why change this? I think the original version (`--node-module`) works and is what you want here.

#### How it works

> The `navigation.yaml` file is read in `webapp/settings.py` to create a Flask settings objects `django.conf.settings.NAV_SECTIONS`.

Reviewer: `webapp/context.py`
